Loan Welcome back.
And this lecture I want to provide a solution to our previous challenge which was an assignment on implementing
the state design pattern of simple application that simulated vibration and silence and a mobile phone.
So we're gonna call this state solution a state solution and the first thing we're gonna do is we're
going to create our state interface.
This can be either an abstract class or an interface.
We're just gonna call it mobile alert state mobile alert state and we'll make this an interface.
This is just gonna have one method.
This is gonna have the public void alert method something like that and then we're gonna create the
context.
The context is the alert state context.
So we'll create another new class and this will be called alert state context.
Now this is gonna have a reference to our state objects.
So we'll say private mobile alert state.
Current state and then we're gonna have a constructor that sets that current state.
Now we're gonna need to have two concrete state objects vibration and silence.
And so the constructor is gonna set an initial state it's gonna use the concrete state object which
we haven't implemented yet but we will sign it.
It's also gonna have a set state method and then it's gonna have the alert method the alert method is
always easy to implement because it's just going to call the current state use the current state object
and call the alert method in there.
So it uses polymorphism so we can say public and this is really the gist of the pattern.
Public void alert and then we can just say current state that call the alert method.
Right.
And that will handle the state change.
So now we need to create our concrete state classes.
Remember gonna have two of those.
We're gonna have our vibration and then we're also going to have a silent class so that vibration is
gonna be pretty simple because it's just gonna have one overridden method.
That alert method.
And we're not going to actually turn a phone on and put a phone in vibration because we don't have access
to all the hardware we're just gonna output some code saying that it worked the other concrete class
that we need to create is the silent class.
And again very straightforward to implement the alert.
And it's gonna do some different action based on the handler.
In this case it's gonna print out a different output message.
And I screwed up a little.
These classes really should go in the implementation of this alert state.
These should go on inside here because they're implementing the different states and then the context
is separate right.
The context is just going to have a reference to the state and then call the right method on that instance.
Last thing we need to do is only to create a client so we'll just call this client and we'll have the
standard main method.
Public static void main.
And this is just gonna create an alert state context and we'll just say state context and then we'll
say a new alert state context and then we're just going to set a bunch of alerts and then change the
state.
So when we initially said a couple of alerts the state is gonna be in a default state which is the vibration
So we should see that.
So if we set if we call our twice we should cease vibrate.
Then if we change it to a silent state we should see all subsequent calls to the alert now be handling
in the silent state
something like this.
We change the change of state and then the context should change as well.
So we're gonna say build I'm going to run this client and we'll just gonna see simple output that the
state is changing initially again the state is gonna be vibration for twice because we call our twice
and then silent three times so pretty straight forward.
Not a lot of objects in the state right.
We just have our state interface and then an object for each state.
And remember if you have a lot of states this can get problematic because you have a lot of objects
but the state context will just have a reference to the interface and then through polymorphism at runtime
it's going to call the right alert method for that particular state and the action will be handled if
you have any questions please let me know.
Thank you.